good morning this is section 414 and
we'll get a slides in a second my name
is Richard Williamson and this is taking
advantage of new web kit features and
I'm going to be telling you about some
of the new features and WebKit until
we're introducing this year just over a
year ago now we introduce Safari and
it's a great web browser millions of
people are using it and we're pretty
proud of it but the technology behind
Safari is not just about web browsing
already last year some of the system
applications in OS 10 starting to take
advantage of the technology behind
Safari inicia mail dot ask is going one
step further not only will it use the
supply technology to display content
you'll be able to compose rich HTML
messages using the Safari technology and
we introduced Wanda last picture the
calculator well actually a bunch of apps
in dashboard and the technology behind
dashboard is the same technology behind
Safari and that technologies WebKit so
in this session I'm going to talk about
the new features in WebKit but also I'm
going to talk about what it means to use
this technology not just the browsing
but going beyond browsing so quick recap
what is web kidding it's a framework
that ship to know is 10 and it allows
you to embed web content obviously HTML
images plugging data and it's highly
scriptable and this last topic is
something which i'm going to focus on
quite a bit in this session behind me is
a high level architecture diagram of
WebKit the web framework actually
encapsulates the open-source k HTML and
kts engines and it's layered on top of
basket for UI controls core graphics for
rendering and foundations for nsurl
loading and laid above the web
frameworks
it's a capi to allow carbon applications
to access this technology now even
though it's layered on an open source
engine we encourage you to use the
WebKit API you can look at the source
code in the implementation but please
implement against the WebKit API okay
what's new well when awful lot is new
this year and I'm going to cover some
new API areas and also some new features
in web clip when you are you will
graduate this year support for what we
call web archives and web archive is
simply a way of representing both the
page and its associated resources in one
package lots of new scripting support
and some of you may have seen some of
this already in some of the dashboard
sessions dashboard relies heavily on new
scripting technology that we have
editing API is this is a big new area in
WebKit and the API to introducing a
pretty comprehensive here to support the
Dom the document object model in
objective-c and also to support editing
in a very cocoa style fashion there's a
session on Friday that will drill down
into quite some depth in the editing API
it was mixed named in the brochure and
the real name should be website HTML
editing api's it's friday at ten-thirty
when i strongly encourage you to go
attend that session dragging support we
had a lot of requests from you all to
override the default dragging behavior
of the webview you can now do that with
the new API plugins we've always
supported plugins Netscape style plugins
in WebKit but it so it's been difficult
to write a plug-in for WebKit so this
year we're including everything
necessary to write an ex-gay plugin in
the in the OS we've also introduced a
new form of plugins cocoa plugins that
make it vastly simpler to write a
plug-in for web kit and it's a great
session later this afternoon section 413
that will go into some detail about both
the club the cocoa plugin api and the
netscape api
and as many many other tweaks we don't
really have enough time to describe them
all but a lot of these tweaks were
inspired by you all there's some
activity on the web kit SDK mailing list
and we went through that list and we
gleaned a lot of information and there's
also a lot of features that you always
requested we pay attention so if it's a
feature you'd like please let us know so
in terms of the new API is I'm going to
focus on just two areas in this
presentation where've archives and
scripting but before I drill down into
that I'm going to describe some of the
new features regarded to WebKit we now
have comprehensive support for CSS 2.1
and we also have support for a lot of
advanced nucleus s3 features css3
features I'm still waking up yeah so
there's a session yesterday they hire
gave 419 we went into a lot of detail
about some of the new CSS features that
we have and even though that session is
passed I encourage you to go and review
the slides and the DVD DVD material for
that presentation so I talked about
dragging support at the web framework
level we also added dragging support at
the JavaScript level what this means is
that your pagers can interact with drag
operations so you can actually have an
element participate an element on a web
page participate in a drag operation
this is a very nice feature and the
implementation of this follows the
Microsoft's dragging support standards
de facto standards like an egg supply
1.2 introduced lifenet that's the
ability to interact between Java and
JavaScript bridging those two languages
we also introduced XML HTTP support in
Safari 1.2 this is the ability to
initiate an HTTP request from JavaScript
very useful for example if you want to
dynamically add stuff data from a web
service to the webpage many other
applications there's a great session
that's also been given already on Monday
but I referring to that in the DVD
material to discuss these last three
things dragging support life connect and
xml httprequest and finally many many
compatibility fixes particular very
glamorous topic but we spend a lot of
time trying to make WebKit work with the
existing web content and believe me
there's a lot of crazy content out there
so it takes a lot of effort sometimes to
figure out what the problem is and
before you even fix it so in addition to
pushing the support in Safari we've
added some features that go beyond the
standards and many of these features
weren't inspired by Safari RSS and
dashboard there are things that we
wanted to do that you couldn't quite do
with existing standards one of those
things is image compositing what this
will allow you to do is on the image tag
on the HTML page specifies composite
operator and for those of you who don't
know what composite operators are it's
the ability to take advantage of the
alpha channel in an image when you blit
that image into a surface so all the
power of the composite operations that
are provided by CG core graphics are now
available to you in web pages we added a
few CSS extensions to support the Flex
box model this is used in Safari RSS
they're also a few other things that
we've added that you can support but you
can use in your web pages a couple of
new input elements but also in Safari
RSS the slider widget so you can
actually have a slider that will provide
range values and the search field both
very nice features and finally the
canvas element so we found that we
wanted to dynamically draw into content
on a web page you can't do that with
anything that's out there that's
expanded so we introduce this new
element that will support that but I'm
going to after talking about the new API
in depth I'm going to drill down some
more on the canvas element show you some
examples of them so let's get into it
talk about the web archive API
well a web page is a lot more than just
the initial HTML page that you use to
lay out your your document it's also the
associated resource data images
JavaScript and CSS so web archive is all
of those things collectively put
together we represent resources by a new
class web resource and the entire thing
by new class the web archive and the on
disk format of a web archive is a single
file a single binary file which makes it
very convenient to move these things
around there's also an in-memory format
the pasteboard format that is used to
facilitate editing so for example if I
have to web views now make us watching
in one web view and drag that to another
web view look editable the paper
representation will be a web archive so
this facilitates editing so you
typically don't create a web archive
directly instead you have an existing
web page that you create a web archive
farm or alternatively an existing
selection that you create a web archive
phone and once you have a web archive
it's really simple to take that archive
and load it into a webview or use it to
replace a current election what is the
code looks like to do this very
straightforward for those of you that
are familiar with WebKit this will look
very familiar we get to mainframe off
the webview we get the data source
associated with the frame and then we
asked you to create a web archive that's
all it takes to create a web archives on
the selection you get the selected down
range and you ask that give me a web
archive now that second method that
selected Dom range is a new method that
we're introducing this part of the Dom
API and again I encourage you to attend
Friday's session to learn more about
that new Dom API so once I have a wet
once I have a web archive how do I get
it into the page the existing methods to
get content into a web you look like
this load request that takes an NF URL
request and we'll go and retrieve the
data and put it into the web view well
load HTML string which will actually
take an HTML snippet and stick it into
away
view the API looks like this very much
what you would expect to load a web
archive low dark eyes and you patch in
the archives so alternatively you can
replace the current selection like this
replace selection with all kinds okay
you really drive this point home let me
do a quick demo
so there's a new way of saving a page in
safari that takes advantage of the web
archive feature I can add a sailor page
as well source which I'll do here go
ahead and save that in my documents
folder well I can say leave the web
archive
you want to let's now go ahead and
disconnect from the net
empty safaris cash go ahead and load
these papers again that looks pretty
crappy let's go ahead and load web walk
eyes much more like what you'd expect so
this is a great way this is a great way
in your applications if you want to
create content that convey efficiently
be packaged and loaded you can create
web archives and include them in your
application bundles back to the slides
please ok how about some stuff that can
really help me build a good widget guess
what we're going to talk about now the
first little bit of homework there's
always homework I'm going to talk about
scripting in quite some depth what do I
mean by scripting we've had JavaScript a
long time we all know about JavaScript
on web pages what I'm going to focus on
in this discussion is scripting in the
context of binding javascript to native
code so that I can message from
JavaScript infinitive code and in the
other direction message javascript from
native code specifically what i mean by
native code is a chunk of code like this
this is some Jessa vetoed that wants to
call into JavaScript it wants to invoke
this function set image in JavaScript
well alternatively I could have a hunk
of JavaScript code like this who wants
to call into an objective-c instance in
this case an address book object I'm
going to get some address book records
so when we talk about scripting it's
really how do we bind native code to
javascript in Objective C it's also
we've also introduced support for
binding JavaScript to see you don't have
to implement an objective c you could do
this in situ and this is really useful
for plugging the particular existing
netscape plugins that aren't implemented
in cocoa
I'm going to talk about the objective-c
to JavaScript bridging in this session
the plugin session this afternoon is
going to describe the more detail the
sea bindings to javascript so first
let's talk about going calling
javascript from objective-c so
JavaScript objects in objective-c are
represented by what we call a web Script
object and a web Script object is an
objective c class that has has methods
to allow you to call functions and get
in set properties on the corresponding
javascript instance now how do you get
to the JavaScript interpreter what is
the root how do you get that hook into
the JavaScript interpreter well as a
JavaScript window object and the
JavaScript window objects in Objective C
corresponds to the window object that is
the root object on your web pages and
there's a new method on web view windows
script object let's get to that initial
hook into a web page it's an example of
how you could use it very simply to get
the location hof property from a web
page so in this case I'm asking the
webview give me the windows script
object and then give me your location
property which is an object JavaScript
web Script object again and then after
that object give me the excess property
it's a simple event there's an
alternative method to do the same thing
I can take a little chunk of JavaScript
and evaluate that on a particular web
Script object in this case I'm
evaluating location.href on the window
web Script object these two mechanisms
are equivalent okay how do I invoke that
JavaScript function from objective-c
well first I get the window Script
object again then i create an array that
represents the arguments that i'm going
to pass into javascript in this case
it's just a single element in the array
the name of an image that i'm going to
pass to add image and then i invoke the
javascript function by clone call web
scripts method with the name of the
function add image and the arguments
again alternatively I can use a snippet
of JavaScript to do the same thing so in
this case add image the again these two
mechanisms of equivalent
depending upon your usage plans you can
use one over the other okay so what
kinds of things can attach to and from
JavaScript well you can pass any object
to JavaScript any objective c object n
extremes and NX numbers are treated
specially an extreme gets converted to a
string in Java Script an NS number is
converted to another in JavaScript and
NSA is also handled specially and I'll
talk a little bit more about that in a
moment web script objects again web
Script object represents the JavaScript
object in objective-c when you pass one
of these back to JavaScript it becomes
unwrapped and you have a reference to
the original JavaScript object all other
kinds of objective-c instances are
represented by proxy in JavaScript so
here's a summary of the type matching
between JavaScript and rejected see when
calling javascript farm objective c NS
string string and it's numbers map to a
number now an nsarray is a special case
arrays in Java Script strange flexible
which strange beef you can have spa
surveys you can have associative arrays
and it's all the same object and its
array is really a much simpler the
straightforward arrays but there isn't a
one-to-one correspondence between the
JavaScript array and an nsarray so the
array you get in javascript is we don't
wait unlimited you can't use it like an
associative array but you can access the
elements positionally a web Script
object of course as I've said gets
unwrapped in in JavaScript when become
to the original JavaScript object and
any other objective c instance is mapped
to a proxy in javascript and i'll talk a
little bit more about boxes next first
let's do demo and i'll do a quick demo
to show you how to write a web site
application to interact between Coco
components Coco widgets and a web page
ok
so let's build from scratch I've got a
fresh Xcode project here first let's
build a nip file we're going to use this
and I've actually built this already so
I'm really just going to take the
components from the existing project and
copy them in to this new project so
let's get a nib file copy that into the
project and open up this nip foil so you
can see here I've got three controls
that are going to specify three
different images and when I click on one
of these controls it's going to set the
content of the webview to be the
appropriate image for that button and
you'll see that the controller is just
going to send although the radio matrix
is just going to send a message to a
controller object to pick an appropriate
picture type so let's go ahead and hide
this and pull in the code to do that
here we go
so this could very straightforward it
has the single method well as two
methods I'll talk about this one first
picture type clicked and this looks very
much like the example I showed you on
the slide we get the windows script
objects which corresponds to the window
object of the web page then I go ahead
and call set image with arguments when
I'm constructing to set the appropriate
URL for that particular image let me
back up a second and show you what we do
in our wake from nib method what I'd
like to do is load content into that web
view that represents the page that I'd
like to show so I do that by extracting
a resource out of the bundle that is a
string it's officially just txt file I
can put that to a string and then load
it into the web view so let's take a
look a beer the webpage that we're going
to use here add it as a resource very
straightforward page it has a single
javascript function it's going to get
the image element by ID and then it's
going to set the source of the image
element and this source in the URL okay
so the final thing I need to do is add
some images picture of fire let's add
that and the picture of the grand canyon
and a picture of Napa Valley go ahead
and add those and then let's build this
project and run it
okay so here's my application now when i
click on nasa what actually happened
there is i sent a message from this
objective c control to my objective c
controller instance which in turn sent a
message to javascript to load the napper
image click on the fire button it's
sending the file URL to javascript and
grand canyon go ahead back to the slide
okay what about the other direction I
have some JavaScript code to watch the
claw into objective-c well this is web
proxies come in if you have an
objective-c object that you want to have
a peer in JavaScript will represent that
object by proxy and will automatically
reflect the methods and the properties
of the objective-c instance in objective
in JavaScript and this is an up we have
an opt-in policy for the methods that we
expose to JavaScript what that means is
you have to tell us I want this
particular method or this particular
property to appear in JavaScript and the
kinds of things that you can expose the
JavaScript are any objective c object
you can expose methods that takes Kayla
kilometers scalars are in some floats of
course and other kinds of scalar type
you can also expose scalar its variables
what you can't do is expose structures
or pointers to arbitrary memory you can
expose a pointer to an object but no
other kind of pointy types ok so again
let's say how i have this example class
in address book class and it has these
methods get a shared incidents get a
composite name the first and the last
name and a way to position the cursor in
the address book position carded index
and i want to expose this to javascript
i do i do it well i get the instant the
shared instance and then i simply set
the objective-c object is a property on
the window object get the window Script
object and call set values the key with
the name address book and that name is
the name that will appear in your
JavaScript code for this particular
property so from JavaScript if I wanted
to write something to retrieve the
first name in my dress book this is how
I do it windows autograph book gets me
the window object and I call position
card index to position the first record
and then I called composite name simple
as then now for those the view that were
paying attention that last slide had
something that was a little too strange
that under by the name at the end of
that method name position card index on
tuba what's that all about kind ugly
well by default we have to mass
objective-c names to JavaScript names
and objective-c names have colin's after
each or before each parameter so a colon
gets mapped to an on the bar but that's
really ugly so if you want to override
the default name of an objective-c
method that gets mapped to JavaScript
you can implement this method on your
class the class that exported to
JavaScript web script name for Celestra
so in this case we take it's lighter in
and we return the name that will be
exposed to JavaScript so I'm going to
use position carded index with no
underbar so now my JavaScript code would
look like this position guarded index
okay so in practice you typically want
to expose functionality into javascript
very early on in the construction of
your page so you might have javascript
code in the head section of your page
and that JavaScript code needs to access
functionality native functionality so
when do you actually publish your
objects into JavaScript well you can do
that really early on we've added a new
web frame load delegate method which is
Windows Script object available and this
method will be called before we do any
processing on the page so you can insert
your functionality into the JavaScript
interpreter before we evaluate any
JavaScript on the page so in this case
I'm going to insert the address book
instance into the JavaScript namespace
very early on okay summarize type
matching in this direction a javascript
string is mapped to an error screen a
JavaScript number is mapped to an NS
number
all other kinds of JavaScript object
objects including JavaScript arrays a
map to web script objects and JavaScript
boxes or an objective-c proxy in
JavaScript when it's past back to
objective-c is represented by the
original objective c instance ok let's
do a demo in this direction and what I'm
going to show you is a demo to
dynamically dynamically construct a web
page using the records from my address
book to close this project
and again we'll build it from scratch to
show you how simple this is and I built
it already so it's not really from
scratch but so first thing will copy the
nib file again for this project into
Xcode a nip nip file is really
straightforward it's just a single
window with a webview now one thing that
we've done here is we've set up the
frame load delegate of the webview to be
the controller instance so this is the
incidence that will receive that message
window Script object available let's go
ahead and go into Xcode and take a look
at the source code well she first let me
show you the the address book class that
will be exposing
so it's a pretty simple object with a
shed instance it implements two methods
two weeks or two or three methods that
we care about composite name this will
return the name of one of my contacts in
my grass book the way to position the
cursor in the address book and a way to
get the number of cards I'm going we're
actually using the address book
framework here to download my entire
dress book into a simple NS array that's
how we're going to get the data there
are a few things that are relevant to
this demo web script name for selector
this is how we map the name position
card at index Cohen to position carded
index and this method is the message
that we implement to expose the message
this case yes I want these methods
available in JavaScript and you have to
implement this method if you didn't
implement this method and people if you
returned no this method every single
method of your objective c object would
be exposed including things like the
owlet and it doesn't make a lot of sense
to call the Alex from JavaScript
receptor controller instance source code
this looks pretty similar to the
previous demo I'm going to extract some
content HTML content out of the pack out
of the application bundle and I'm going
to set that content as the HTML of the
web frame in my wake from their method
and now very simply in the frame load
delegate method I'm going to set the
address book as the address book
property of the window object so I need
to do one additional thing here and that
is as the address book framework oh one
additional thing too I have to copy over
the source for the page and let's take a
look at that so this is a pretty simple
page initially it has an empty body
there's no content in the page we're
going to dynamically dynamically
construct the entire page and that's
going to be done in get contact onload
handler and they simply accesses the
address book instance that we've
exported to JavaScript gets a number of
cards and then iterates over the cards
getting the name of each record in the
address book and then it creates a div
and adds back to the document go ahead
and build and run this
there we go let's pull up the address
book and make sure the visa records
match oops phone numbers in there so all
the records in address book match the
dynamically constructed webpage so it's
really simple to do this stuff if you
have native functionality and you want
to get into JavaScript it's very
straightforward and I think there's
going to be a lot of synergy between the
cocoa framework and this technology so
so for example core data is going to
really allow a lot of interesting
applications that use web pages of
front-end to relational databases one
last topic on scripting and that's the
Dom well we've introduced a significant
new set of objective c api is to expose
the dom in objective-c that just the
week quick recap the dumb is the
document object model of a web page and
there's a set of standardized api from
the w3c that define the Dom API and we
have a mapping of that API in
objective-c now if i get a Dom object
image like to see what does that mean in
terms of scripting well all Dom objects
inherit from web Script object so that
means if you have a dollar object it's
inherently scriptable so well let me
just have another call out to the
sectional Friday again that's going to
be a great session talks about the Dom
API in detail but let me show you a
quick example of how you would do this
there's a new method on web frame to get
the domdocument that's the document
object to represent your page and you
can evaluate web script on it just as
you can any other web Script object in
this case I'm going to call get element
by ID to get the context there or the
element with the ID context of this is
equivalent to the objective-c method get
element by ID get element by ID is a new
method in the Dom API we're introducing
these two mechanisms are equivalent so
why would you use one over the other
well it's much more efficient to use the
objective c api directly so for example
if you're doing things that iterate over
a tree it's much more efficient to use
the get a 1 by DS you're going to scan
the entire document for an element soon
on the other hand if you're doing stuff
dynamically with JavaScript the first
method is appropriate so there's a lot
of flexibility in the scripting API we
think it's going to give you a lot of
new capabilities that are pretty
significant okay finally last feature
that we're going to discuss in some
detail the canvas element and when we
were putting together the dashboard we
came to the conclusion pretty quickly
there were some things we wanted to do
we just couldn't do in the dashboard
with existing HTML technology so we and
one of those things was doing procedural
renderings into a gadget so we
introduced the canvas element to support
that and what it allows you to do is to
draw into an XML element on a page and
specifically you draw into a page using
a context and we've created a 3d context
that allows you to do 2d drawing
operations into a canvas element on the
canvas element is treated very much like
the image element it's a replace by
default to replaced inline element which
means it flows just like an image on a
page and because the context is backed
by core graphics you have all the power
of core graphics in terms of the
rendering capabilities into a canvas
which means your toddler accelerated if
you have the appropriate hardware and
you can really do really fantastic
vector graphics using the canvas element
and you can do really interesting
effects with image compositing so
specifically the drawing operations that
we expose all the same glowing
operations that you can do with a CG
context you can construct arbitrary path
including curves you can fill in store
closed paths you can composite images
you have control over the transparency
levels and the compositing operation at
the global level so you can actually set
a composite operator for drawing other
than just image compositing this is an
example of how you specify a canvas
element on a web page it looks very much
like the image tag you specify width and
a height a composite operator this is
the operator that will be used to
composite the resulting image into your
web page and this by the way the same
compute name that we've added to the
image element okay so how do I actually
do the drawings in to use a canvas
element well here's an example in this
case I'm going to draw a line from the
top left to the lower right of the
canvas the first thing we do is we get
the canvas element using the familiar
get element by ID and then we ask that
element give me a context in this case a
2d context now I begin by going click on
text it's going to fill a context with
transparency which talk to pass you know
00 to the lower left I mean lower right
check the stroke color and struck out
that pretty straightforward so I think
this stuff is best illustrated with some
demos let me show you some demos of the
canvas
let me increase the font size of it okay
so here's a really simple web page that
specifies a canvas element not too
exciting yet let's open up safari and
load the page now let me turn the
network back on before I forget to do
that
so what does this look like well next to
a rectangle not too exciting so we're
just starting so let's go ahead and draw
some lines into the canvas so what I'm
going to do is add a little script in
here and this is actually going to draw
two lines like this through the through
the page we're going to do it in the
onload handler of the body element okay
let's go ahead and save save this is
something different
two lines in canvas whoo okay let's
crank this up a bit show something a bit
more wizzy okay this looks more
interesting let's hide the other
applications so what I have here is a
rectangle with some shapes but we're
drawing dynamically frame by frame using
in canvas and we can do things of course
you know change the colors and because
the canvas itself is an element on the
page like any other element we can do
CSS tricks like positioning so I'm going
to dynamically move the canvas as I
render each frame you need to do things
like change the colors there's one other
thing i want to show you on this page
which is kind of interesting and that's
the circle up there this is another
canvas but if the canvas used to
implement a widget special a new kind of
widget on the webpage and what this
widget does is specify the objects and
the angle of the shadow in each shape so
you'll notice there's a blurred shadow
and its shape as I move this control to
see that shadow change so this is
implemented using standard JavaScript
event handling and the canvas to render
the widget pretty nifty so of course we
can change the blue raiders with the new
slider input element I can do things
like change the background color so this
is pretty cool let me show you one other
thing that I think is pretty cool let's
stop this thing moving there's a new
debug menu in JavaScript that I call
dashboard mode and what it does
it takes away all the stuff disavow edge
and you just have the pure HTML here
with no background so putting if you let
me just show you how powerful this
really is let's pull up another window
load some some interesting content here
incredibles this trailer i love this
trailer okay and you can see that it's
doing everything you'd expect this is a
web page being rendered transparently
over quicktime movie pretty amazing okay
just a few more slides so it's not just
about web browsing this web key
technology is really powerful and now
with this ability to bind all the cocos
flame web technology into javascript
there's a lot of new capabilities that
we're providing to you you can build
visually compelling applications really
quickly and you can leverage your
existing web design skills classic
prototyping this is an interpreted
environment so you don't have to go
through a compile phase it's great
simple deployment these are just web
pages so I said we'd build a gadget so
let me do that now in the remaining time
that we have this is actually a really
simple gadget it's the clock most of the
clock that is included in the in the
dashboard so the first thing we're going
to do is construct a web page to close
this crease the font size
save this okay not very interesting I
know I'm just creating the face of the
clock it's a simply an image we need to
put an HTML element around this I've
been kind of sloppy I'm not specifying
the doctype okay let's load this into
Safari very sloppy HTML at this point
but that's the clock face that's the
beginning of the web page of the gadget
i should say okay now what I'd like to
do is add some JavaScript code to load
in the images that I want to use for the
clock hands so what I'd like to do is
have just three images that are used for
the hours minutes and seconds hand and
use the canvas element to apply
transforms to the image images as I
composite them into the canvas because
it's just Fiji so you have access to all
the transform capabilities that you'd
expect so this code creates three image
objects the minute hand second hand and
our hand and it goes ahead and loads
them and I have this little function
that counts out the images as they
loaded because in this case the images
are all local but they could be remote
so it may take some time to load the
images and I don't want to start
compositing until I have all of the
images okay what next let's add a load
handler
and the canvas element so what i've done
here is i've added a canvas element
that's going to be positioned using CSS
right on top of the image element
initially it's just transparent but it's
positioned over the image gentlemen this
is standard CSS you can see i'm
specifying absolute positioning 00 so
let's take a look at what this looks
like now it's fine that's exactly the
same there's nothing new ok let's add
some code to draw the hands I'll first I
guess we have to add one more thing we
have to add the code that will figure
out the appropriate angle to composite
the hand so we have to know where to
position the second hand the minute
hands in the hour hand we do this using
the standard JavaScript data object some
simple math we compute the angles for
the second minute and our hand never go
ahead and draw the hands float this
again still nothing new ok let's get to
the final piece actually drawing the
hands
resize this window a little bit okay so
what we did with the onload handler is
we added a javascript function that's
going to be called every second and this
JavaScript function will go ahead and
compute the angles for each of the hands
and then call a draw hands method that
will do the actual work of compositing
the images and the draw hands method is
implemented like this the first thing we
do is make sure we have all of the
images available the image count has to
be three we clear the context and then
we call say well what's a Volvo save
save the graphic space of the context
that's used to enter into the canvas so
after calling say followed by a restore
if you've done any transform operations
in between a save and restore they'll be
restored who's appropriate so what we
actually are doing here is we're
translating to the center of the clock
face actually just a little bit above
the center of the clock face because
that's the center of the circle then we
go ahead and call draw hand which is my
job function up here too compositor that
image now we've translated ready to the
center but now I need to rotate is
appropriate to composite the image hand
so here's the rotate of the angle that
we previously computed and finally
finally we get to draw the image using
raw image on the context and then we
restore the angle because the next hand
is going to be painted a different
rotation so that's it let's go ahead and
load it now oh yeah we have hands
working but they're not fighting the
center what's going on with that well by
default the style of the body element on
a web page has a margin that isn't 00 so
let's go ahead and add some style to
adjust the margin
of the body element we're going to set
the margins to do we live that looks
much better then we have the clock
widget let's go ahead and turn on
dashboard mood group just like it
appears in dashboard so you have it so I
want to say a few final words about the
availability of these technologies of
course it's going to be about everything
we've talked about today is going to be
available in to 52.1 tiger all of the
web kit features that we've talked about
today are also going to be available on
Panther in 10.3 and there's already a
developer preview of that release that
you can download today just one final
point there's lots of documentation and
sample code available on the connector
apple com site encourage you to check
that out